Our bodies are made up of trillions of cells.
Yet each individual cell is a marvel of design and organization.
Inside our cells, biological processes signal specific proteins
to assemble themselves into tracks called microtubules.
Tiny molecular machines called kinesins then transport various components
to different parts of the cell.
By walking along the tracks, from microscopic proteins to enormous galaxies,
our organized universe abounds with examples of elegant design.
As a mechanical design educator, I view even natural things from a design perspective.
Mechanical design considers not only the individual components of a machine
but also how they interact.
From this viewpoint, human vision is a magnificent example of design.
For a single eye, the cornea, the iris, and the lens interact to focus an image on the retina.
The light-sensitive cells of the retina call photoreceptors produce nerve signals.
Signals from the rod and cone photoreceptors are transmitted by the optic nerve
to the brain where they are processed to produce a perceived image.
Now, just imagine the multiplied complexity when two eyes interact.
Particularly mind-boggling is the amount of information being constantly processed
by more than 130 million retinal receptors and then transmitted
through the 1.2 million nerve fibers of the optic nerve to the brain.
To me, the sheer complexity of how all these components flawlessly interact
is evidence of a superior designer.
Some disagree.
They propose that the eye evolve from a light-sensitive patch
and some ancestral creature through small random changes.
I find the proposed process unrealistic.
Unlike design, it is unplanned and without a goal.
We are asked to imagine that a complex system can develop without direction
while in the natural world things tend to become disorganized,
but consider something even more mind-boggling.
The design of the eye, the optic nerve, and brain, and how they function and interact
are completely documented in our DNA.
In fact, our DNA contains all the instructions for building an entire human body.
While science relies only on physical explanations, many individual scientists reason
that highly-ordered natural systems are evidence of a designer.
My personal conclusion is that there is a god who is revealed in the magnificent designs of nature.